---
layout: page
title: About
permalink: /about/
---

Students from high socio-economic backgrounds are not only three times more likely to go to university than their lower socio-economic status (SES) peers, but they are also more likely to go to highly selective courses [(Chowdry et al, 2013)](https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/abs/10.1111/j.1467-985X.2012.01043.x), courses which often lead to better paid careers [(Britton et al., 2022)](https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0927537122001580). Recent work has shown that there are important gaps in student quality-course quality “matching” across SES groups [(Campbell et al., 2022)](https://www.journals.uchicago.edu/doi/10.1086/718433). Whilst prior attainment plays a key role in explaining some of these differences, the full impact of teacher predicted grades – a key part of the university admissions system – remains unknown. This critical issue was brought to the forefront of UK education policy in 2020 when exams were cancelled as a result of the Covid-19 pandemic and centre-assessed grades (CAGs, based on teacher predictions) replaced externally set and marked exams, meaning teacher prediction played an even greater role in determining students' university destinations. This project will determine whether teachers may have systematically under or over-predicted some groups of secondary school students following the cancellation of A-level exams in 2020, and the consequences for their university destinations. I am also interested in what we can learn from this more generally: if teachers did award some types of students more generous predictions, this information will help us to understand the consequences of any (existing or potential) policies which involve teachers’ subjective evaluations of students. 

This research will improve our understanding of the extent of discrepancies in teacher judgement in the English education system and the implications for A-level student outcomes. I will exploit data from the GRading and Admissions Data for England (GRADE) project. This contains linked micro-data between Office of Qualifications and Examinations Regulation (Ofqual), the Department for Education (DfE) and Universities and Colleges Admissions Service (UCAS). For this project I will focus on cohorts who took their A-levels in 2018, 2019 and the 2020 cohort whose exams were cancelled in Summer 2020.

Teachers are widely recognised as the most important determinant of student outcomes within educational settings [(Murphy, 2010)](https://www.suttontrust.com/our-research/improving-impact-teachers-pupil-achievement-uk-interim-findings/). Much of the activity in classrooms is dependent on their discretion. If there is divergence in teacher judgements according to certain student characteristics, this could have immediate and lasting consequences on student outcomes. It is generally very difficult to illicit information on the extent to which teacher judgements differ from students’ actual performance. However, the cancellation of A-level exams in Summer 2020 (due to Covid-19) provides a unique opportunity to establish empirical evidence on the existence and magnitude of discrepancies in teacher predictions. In doing so, I seek to answer the following research questions (RQ): 

- [RQ1] Are there systematic differences in how teachers predict the grades of different groups of students? e.g., do teachers appear to be more generous to some students than others? 
- [RQ2] Does this differ by the subject of A-level qualification? 
- [RQ3] Do teacher predicted grades (and did CAGs) affect the university course students ultimately enroll in? 

These RQs are highly relevant to key questions highlighted by DfE as ‘areas of research interest’ about the impact of student choices and access on disadvantaged students [(DfE, 2018)](https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/department-for-education-areas-of-research-interest).  As stated above, teachers are one of the main drivers of student attainment in GCSEs and A levels, which then determine their future outcomes including earnings. Understanding if there are discrepancies in teachers’ judgements in favour of certain groups over others, resulting in differences in school attainment and university choices, will help us to understand the implications for social mobility and equity. 

